---
layout:     post
title:      JAVA Q&A
subtitle:   JAVA Q&A
date:       2022-01-10
author:     DeSoiat
header-img: img/jpg/11.jpg
catalog: true
tags: 
    - JAVA
    - JVM
    - IO
---


# Q 1：What is OOP and what are its advantages?

OOP = Object-Oriented Programming

"Procedural programming is about writing procedures or methods that perform operations on the data, while object-oriented programming is about creating objects that contain both data and methods.
OOP is faster and easier to execute
OOP provides a clear structure for the programs
OOP helps to keep the Java code DRY "Don't Repeat Yourself", and makes the code easier to maintain, modify and debug
OOP makes it possible to create full reusable applications with less code and shorter development time " - w3schools

---

# Q 2: What is the difference between Shallow and Deep copy?

Shallow copy: Create a pointer then point to an existing RAM address, if the address changes, then the pointer will change with the RAM address.

Deep copy: Clone the data, then create a pointer point to the Cloned data RAM address.

<figure class="table"><table><thead><tr><th>Shallow Copy</th><th>Deep Copy</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Shallow Copy stores the references of objects to the original memory address. &nbsp;&nbsp;</td><td>Deep copy stores copies of the object’s value.</td></tr><tr><td>Shallow Copy reflects changes made to the new/copied object in the original object.</td><td>Deep copy doesn’t reflect changes made to the new/copied object in the original object.</td></tr><tr><td>Shallow Copy stores the copy of the original object and points the references to the objects.</td><td>Deep copy stores the copy of the original object and recursively copies the objects as well.</td></tr><tr><td>Shallow copy is faster.</td><td>Deep copy is comparatively slower.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

---

# Q 3: What is a garbage collector?

"Java applications obtain objects in memory as needed. It is the task of garbage collection (GC) in the Java virtual machine (JVM) to automatically determine what memory is no longer being used by a Java application and to recycle this memory for other uses." - ["What is Garbage Collection in Java
and Why is it Important?" by John Worthington](https://www.eginnovations.com/blog/what-is-garbage-collection-java/)

---

# Q 4: What is the difference between JDK and JRE?

JDK: Java development kit contain development tools and environment.

JRE: Java runtime environment is specially designed to execute Java programs.

---

# Q 5: What is the difference between == and equals?

== checks if both objects point to the same memory location whereas.

equals evaluate to the comparison of values in the objects.

---

# Q 6: What is Linked List?

"A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.
In simple words, a linked list consists of nodes where each node contains a data field and a reference(link) to the next node in the list." - geeks for geeks

Linked List has 3 main element sizes, head, tail, and compare to Arraylist, LinkedList is a bit faster on insert and deletion but with slow random accessibility.

---

# Q 7: What are the commonly used methods of strings?

indexOf("String"): returns the position of the first occurrence of a value in a string.

charAt(index): returns the character at a specified position in a string.

replace("a","b"): Method searches a string for a specified character, and returns a new string where the specified character(s) are replaced.

trim(): Remove space from both sides of a string.

split(): Splits a string into an array of substrings.

getBytes(): Encodes this String into a sequence of bytes using the named charset, storing the result into a new byte array.

length(): Returns the length of a specified string.

toLowerCase() or toUpperCase() : Converts a string to upper or lower case letters.

equals(): Compares two strings. Returns true if the strings are equal, and false if not.

subString(): Returns a new string which is the substring of a specified string.

-w3schools

---

# Q 8: What is the difference between throw and throws?


The throw is used to throw an exception explicitly.

The throws keyword can be used to declare multiple exceptions.

---

# Q 9: try - catch - finally which part can be omitted?

catch 

---

# Q 10: break, continue, return differences and functions?

break - break and stop executing the loop.

continue - break current loop then continue next loop.

return - return value of the method and stop executing the rest code in the method.

---




